	MULTITAPER SPECTRUM LIBRARY

VERSION 4.01
LAST MODIFIED: 
	DECEMBER 2009

The multitaper spectral analysis library is a Fortran 90 library 
for multitaper spectral analysis of univariate and multivariate 
problems, as explained in Prieto et al. (2009). 

The library has been extensively tested but is made available 
without warranty. Users of the software are free to make modifications
to the programs to meet their particular needs, but are asked not to
distribute modified code to others.  Tell us about your improvements
and bug fixes, and we will add them to the code for everyone's benefit.

COMPILING

make.inc
	As part of this release, I created a make.inc file which points
	to the location of the FFTW3 libraries and the location of the 
	multitaper libraries, modules and executables. You should change
	according to your system configuration and preference. 

This release contains a Makefile that will compile the entire set of
libraries and programs as explained in the documentation. The folder
makefiles/ contains other makefiles to compile with other F90 
compilers (ifort, G95, gfortran) or using the Sun F90 compiler (f90). 

To compile just type 

> make

and the libraries libmw.a, libgplot.a will be compiled in folder libraries/
modules will be compiled to the modules/ folder
and interactive programs will be compiled in folder programs/.

We have tested with different compiler versions and various computer
systems (Mac OS X, Sun and Linux) and no modification should be necesary.
Just use the appropriate Makefile from the list in the makefiles/ folder.  

FFTW3

A major change of this and previous release 3.1 is that I have changed the
codes to use FFTW3, the "Fastest Fourier Transform in the West." 
(http://www.fftw.org/) and which you can also find as 
part of Fink, MacPorts and many other releases in Linux (I have used 
Scientific Linux for example) and Unix.

You NEED to have the fftw3 library libfftw3.a in your path. In the file 
make.inc you can change the location of the library for the compilation 
to be able to find it.
 
LAPACK

In this new release I have also employed improved algorithms for linear
algebra, namely LAPACK (http://www.netlib.org/lapack/). The standard 
LAPACK release contains a lot of code, and I have decided to just select 
the routines used by MTSPEC and included them in this release.(See LAPACK
license in the license/ folder). This make the code much more portable, 
since not everybody has LAPACK installed.  
  
PLOTTING

I added to the new release on-the-fly plotting routines. This allows 
the plotting of results from the interactive programs. For plotting to 
work you need to have GNUPLOT installed. The source code is available
in folder /plot/plotprogram/. This code generates PostScript figures
that need to be viewed using Ghostview (gv). Both GNUPLOT and gv need 
to be in your path for on-the-fly plotting to work. 


REFERENCES

Prieto, G. A., R. L. Parker, F. L. Vernon. (2009), A Fortran 90 library 
for multitaper spectrum analysis, Computers and Geosciences, 35, 
pp. 1701-1710. doi:10.1016/ j.cageo.2008.06.007

